本文摘录了“硅谷投资教父”纳瓦尔的一系列推特：如何不靠运气致富？可以说是推特史上转载最多的推特之一。你甚至不需要知道纳瓦尔是谁，只需要体会几条就能明白其中威力。Seek wealth, not money or status. Wealth is having assets that earn while you sleep. Money is how we transfer time and wealth. Status is your place in the social hierarchy.
追求财富，而不是金钱或地位。财富是指在你睡觉时仍能为你赚钱的资产。金钱是我们转换时间和财富的方式。地位是你在社会等级体系中所处的位置。
Understand that ethical wealth creation is possible. If you secretly despise wealth, it will elude you.
创造财富和坚持道德标准是可以兼得的。如果你内心鄙视财富，财富就会对你避而远之。
Ignore people playing status games. They gain status by attacking people playing wealth creation games.
无视一味追求社会地位的人。他们获得地位的手段就是攻击创造财富的人。
You’re not going to get rich renting out your time. You must own equity - a piece of a business - to gain your financial freedom.
依靠出租时间是不可能致富的。你必须拥有股权（企业的部分所有权），才能实现财务自由。
You will get rich by giving society what it wants but does not yet know how to get. At scale.
获得财富的一个途径，就是为社会提供其有需求但无从获得的东西，并实现规模化。
Pick an industry where you can play long term games with long term people.
选择一个有长期发展前景的行业，找到可以长期合作的人。
The Internet has massively broadened the possible space of careers. Most people haven't figured this out yet.
互联网极大地拓展了职业空间，但大多数人还没有清晰地认识到这一点。
Play iterated games. All the returns in life, whether in wealth, relationships, or knowledge, come from compound interest.
培养迭代思维。生活中所有的回报，无论是财富、人际关系，还是知识，都来自复利。
Pick business partners with high intelligence, energy, and, above all, integrity.
选择聪明过人、精力充沛的商业伙伴，但更重要的是，他们要正直诚信。
Don't partner with cynics and pessimists. Their beliefs are self-fulfilling.
不要跟愤世嫉俗和消极悲观的人合作。他们的预言会自我实现。
Learn to sell. Learn to build. If you can do both, you will be unstoppable.
学会销售，学会构建，两技傍身，势不可当。
Arm yourself with specific knowledge, accountability, and leverage.
用专长、责任感和杠杆效应武装自己。
Specific knowledge is knowledge that you cannot be trained for. If society can train you, it can train someone else, and replace you.
专长指的是无法通过培训获得的知识。如果社会可以培训你，那么社会也可以培训他人来取代你。
Specific knowledge is found by pursuing your genuine curiosity and passion rather than whatever is hot right now.
要想有所专长，就要追求真正的兴趣和热爱，而不是盲目追逐热点。
Building specific knowledge will feel like play to you but will look like work to others.
累积专长的过程，对你而言就像玩耍，对他人来说则很吃力。
When specific knowledge is taught, it’s through apprenticeships, not schools.
专长的传授需要通过师傅带徒弟的方式完成，而无法通过学校教育完成。
Specific knowledge is often highly technical or creative. It cannot be outsourced or automated.
专长往往具有高度的技术性或创造性，不能被外包或自动化。
Embrace accountability, and take business risks under your own name. Society will reward you with responsibility, equity, and leverage.
培养责任感，勇于以个人名义承担商业风险。社会将根据责任大小、股权多少和杠杆效应回报你。
The most accountable people have singular, public, and risky brands: Oprah, Trump, Kanye, Elon.负最多责任的人拥有独特的、公开的、有风险的品牌：奥普拉、特朗普、坎耶、埃隆。
“Give me a lever long enough, and a place to stand, and I will move the earth.” - Archimedes
“给我一根足够长的杠杆和一个支点，我就能撬动地球。”——阿基米德
Fortunes require leverage. Business leverage comes from capital, people, and products with no marginal cost of replication (code and media).
要想获得财富，就必须充分利用杠杆效应。商业杠杆来自资本、劳动力和复制边际成本为零的产品（代码和媒体）。
Capital means money. To raise money, apply your specific knowledge, with accountability, and show resulting good judgment.
资本是指金钱。要想获得融资，需要运用自己的专长和责任感，并表现出良好的判断力。
Labor means people working for you. It's the oldest and most fought-over form of leverage. Labor leverage will impress your parents, but don’t waste your life chasing it.
劳动力杠杆就是让别人为你工作。这是最古老、争夺最激烈的一种杠杆。拥有劳动力杠杆会让你的父母觉得你很了不起，但不要过度追逐劳动力杠杆。
Capital and labor are permissioned leverage. Everyone is chasing capital, but someone has to give it to you. Everyone is trying to lead, but someone has to follow you.
资本和劳动力是需要获得许可才能使用的杠杆。人人都在追逐资本，但得有人愿意出资。人人都想领导他人，但得有人愿意追随。
Code and media are permissionless leverage. They're the leverage behind the newly rich. You can create software and media that works for you while you sleep.
代码和媒体是不需要许可就能使用的杠杆。这两个杠杆是新富阶层背后的杠杆。你可以创建软件和媒体，让它们在你睡觉时为你工作。
An army of robots is freely available - it's just packed in data centers for heat and space efficiency. Use it.
有一大批机器人可供我们免费使用。为了提高热效率、节约空间，这些机器人就集中放在数据中心。用起来吧。
If you can't code, write books and blogs, record videos and podcasts.
如果不会写代码，那就出书、写博客、做视频、录播客。
Leverage is a force multiplier for your judgement.
杠杆是判断力的倍增器。
Judgement requires experience, but can be built faster by learning foundational skills.
判断力从经验中来，但可以通过学习基本技能快速建立起来。
There is no skill called “business.” Avoid business magazines and business classes.
没有所谓的“商业”技能。不要把时间浪费在商业杂志和商业课程上。
Study microeconomics, game theory, psychology, persuasion, ethics, mathematics, and computers.
学习微观经济学、博弈论、心理学、说服术、伦理学、数学和计算机。
Reading is faster than listening. Doing is faster than watching.
读比听快，做比看快。
You should be too busy to “do coffee," while still keeping an uncluttered calendar.
你应该忙得没时间社交，但依然把日程安排得井然有序。
Set and enforce an aspirational personal hourly rate. If fixing a problem will save less than your hourly rate, ignore it. If outsourcing a task will cost less than your hourly rate, outsource it.
设定一个大胆的个人时薪，并严格执行。如果解决一个问题节省的成本低于时薪，那就忽略问题；如果外包一项任务的成本低于时薪，那就选择外包。
Work as hard as you can. Even though who you work with and what you work on are more important than how hard you work.
工作时要拼尽全力，毫无保留。不过，共事的人和工作的内容比努力程度更重要。
Become the best in the world at what you do. Keep redefining what you do until this is true.
在自己选择的职业领域里做到全球顶尖。不断重新定义自己的事业，直到理想成为现实。
There are no get rich quick schemes. That's just someone else getting rich off you.
世界上没有快速致富的教程。即使有，那也只是提供教程的人想从你身上赚钱。
Apply specific knowledge, with leverage, and eventually you will get what you deserve.
运用专长，发挥杠杆效应，最终你会得到自己应得的。
When you're finally wealthy, you'll realize that it wasn't what you were seeking in the first place. But that's for another day.
当你终于变得富有时，你会意识到，这并不是你最初的追求。但这是后话。